h1. Project Setup

Things to consider when developing Spray projects.

h2. Naming 

Base package / Bundle ID Prefix: <tt>org.ecliselabs.spray</tt>

h2. Source Management

* Generated sources are *not checked in*
* The following resources must be added to .gitignore for each plugin
** src-gen
** target
** bin
** plugin.xml_gen
* Experimental features must be added on a branch until stabilized. This branch may be shared on the remote repository if it is of interest of other developers to contribute or review the changes.

h2. Adding a new Plugin project

h3. Manifest

* Add a `plugin.properties`
bc.. 
# /**
#  * <copyright>
#  * Copyright (c) 2011 The Spray Project.
#  * All rights reserved.   This program and the accompanying materials
#  * are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License v1.0
#  * which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
#  * http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
#  *
#  * Contributors:
#  *   Spray Project Team
#  * </copyright>
#  */
# NLS_MESSAGEFORMAT_VAR
 
pluginName = ADD DESCRIPTION
providerName = Eclipselabs Spray
p. 
* Open MANIFEST.MF, change/add entries (exchange 0.3.0 by current development version from other plugins)
bc.. 
Bundle-Name: %pluginName
Bundle-Vendor: %providerName
Bundle-Version: 0.3.0.qualifier
Bundle-Localization: plugin
p. 
 
h3. Project Specific Settings

To avoid confusion between different platforms and workspaces common settings should be defined as project specific settings. Those settings are checked in and thus shared.
 
* _Resource_: Text file encoding: Other / UTF-8
* _Resource_: New text file delimiter: Other / Unix
* _Java Code Style -> Formatter_: 
** Check "Enable project specific settings"
** select Active Profile "`spray_eclipse_formatter`"
* _Java Editor -> Save Actions_
** Check "Enable project specific settings"
** Check "Perform the selected actions on save"
** Check "Format source code" / "Format all lines"
** Check "Organize imports"
 
h3. Build

* Copy the <tt>pom.xml</tt> from <tt>org.eclipselabs.spray.generator.graphiti</tt>. Exchange the plugin's name in @<artifactId>org.eclipselabs.spray.generator.graphiti</artifactId>@ by the project's name. 
* Open <tt>releng/org.eclipselabs.spray.distribution/pom.xml</tt> and add the plugin as additional module
